In the previous video, we already learn how
to doing network automation using paramiko.
But the case is still very simple, which
is to create only 1 loopback interface.
Now in this video, we are going to
do more complex network automation.
Let’s say we want to create some interface
loopback at once. Let’s just start.
Create a new file,
let’s say the name is paramiko_looping.py.
I will copy paste the script
from the paramiko_basic.py,
and then later we will edit this.
Okay now let’s edit this script
to create some interface at once.
Let’s say we will create
interface loopback 4 until 6.
To do that, we will use looping, for n, this n is
just a variable, you can use anything you want,
in range 4 until 7, if we looping between 4
until 7 like this, the result will be 4 until 6.
Let’s try it on python interpreter first. Here
let’s type the script, for n in range 4 7,
let’s print the n,
Here we can see that the result is
4 until 6. So here 7 minus by 1.
If we type the looping between 4 until
6, the result will be only until 5.
Let’s try it, for n in range 4 6
Here we can see that the result is only until 5,
so if we want to create loopback 4 until
6, we need to looping on 4 until 7.
Here we need to have indentation we can block
the script and then tab in the keyboard.
For the interface name, let’s change it using n,
because we want the name of interface is loopback4
loopback5 and loopback 6, so we
need to change this 3 become n.
We can use f string, f here, and
then here let’s change become n.
So this n will be 4 5 and 6.
Next, for the ip address, we can see that
the ip address is increment by 1 from the
loopback number. Loopback0, the ip address is
10.1.1.1, loopback1 the ip address is 10.1.1.2.
loopback2 the ip address is 10.1.1.3,
and loopback3 the ip address is 10.1.1.4.
So the last number Is the
loopback number increment by 1,
Now we can change this become n plus by 1.
And then here we need to use f string.
So when we create interface loopback4,
the ip address will be 4 plus by 1, which is 5. When
we create loopback5, the ip address will be 5 plus
by 1, which is 6. And when we create loopback6,
the ip address will be 6 plus by 1, which is 7.
Okay we have done here, we using indentation here,
so this script will be looping, but
the output script is outside looping.
Because we want to execute print
output when all configuration is done.
And then here, configure terminal
is also outside the looping,
because we only need to use
configure terminal command
one time. We don’t need to type configure
terminal every time create interface loopback.
save, let’s execute this script.
Ls, here we can see that we have
paramiko_looping_interface.py,
let’s execute this, python
paramiko_looping_interface.py.
just enter enter here, okay this is success
to login to router 1, configure terminal,
and here we are success to configure loopback 4,
the ip address is 10.1.1.5, configure loopback5,
the ip address is 10.1.1.6, and configure
loopback6, the ip address is 10.1.1.7.
okay this is success. Let’s check on router 1,
do show ip interface brief exclude unassign,
here we can see that we have
interface loopback 4 until 6.
Okay so now we are success to
create many interface at once.
Before moving to next video,
let’s remove all interface loopback on
router 1, so here we have loopback 0 until 6,
let’s try to remove all of this
loopback interface, we can use looping.
Let’s just comment this,
to comment multiple line of code, we
can block the script, and then ctrl + /,
Here we can see that all script is become comment.
If we block the script again, and type ctrl +
/ again, the comment will be gone like this.
If I type ctrl + / again, this
script will become comment again.
And then now let’s write a script to
remove interface loopback 0 until 6,
so for n in range 0 7, because we want to looping
until 6, so we need to write until 7 here.
Or actually, we don’t need 0 here, so we can just
type 7. This is will be looping from 0 until 6.
And then here no interface loopback
n. here we need to use f string.
Don’t forget \n here for enter.
Last, let’s sleep for a half second.
Because the configuration is very simple,
so a half second is enough. Save this.
Let’s back to the terminal, execute the script.
Enter enter here,
okay here we can see that we are success
to remove interface loopback 0 until 6.
Let’s check on router 1 again, show
ip interface brief exclude unassign.
Here we can see that we don’t
have loopback 0 until 6 anymore.
Okay I think enough for this video,
in the next video, we are going to learn how to
configure many router at once.
Thank you for watching and
see you on the next video.